---
section: Chapter I
title: The Setting of the Problem of Reproducing Research Materials
layout: narrative
---

{% include pagebreak.html canvas=19 %} Research in the social sciences and humanities is unlike research in
the natural sciences in that it uses written texts as its principal
material. The first duty of scholarship is to protect and preserve
original writings, the loss of which would be irretrievable. Except
in the case of records committed to perishable paper, this service
does not call for the reproduction of the texts. But great importance
must also be attached to those mechanical impediments which hinder a
scholar whenever he is compelled to alter his plans or suspend his
work because he can neither go to the material he needs nor have the
material brought to him. Unless a given body of research material is
reproduced in so many copies and distributed in so many places that
it is accessable to all the scholars who wish to use it, the
mechanical impediment to the use of that body of material has not
been wholly removed.

In the days when the classics and the works of the Fathers
constituted the principal body of research material, a scholar was
not unlikely to have the core of his research material in his own
private library. As the scope of the disciplines expanded and the
stock of printed matter accumulated, increasing dependence was placed
on the college or university libraries. A generation of great
librarians solved the problems of cataloguing and administering these
libraries. Now, as the tonnage of needed material continues to
increase, the ordinary college library becomes as inadequate as the
private library, and the prospect appears that nothing less than the
whole system of research libraries, cooperating with each other and
allocating responsibilities among themselves, will be able to supply
the research scholar's needs. The Association of Research Libraries
was formed in April, 1932, to grapple with this problem, and the
American {% include columnbreak.html col="2" canvas=19 %} Library Association Committee on Bibliography has
long been working upon it.[^n1]

[^n1]: See "A Restatement of the A.L.A. Plan for the Promotion of Research Library Service by Cooperative Methods," made for the A.L.A. at the request of the Secretary, by the Chairman, November 3, 1930. Washington, D.C., 1930.

In dealing with the problem of research materials, three interests
are to be distinguished: those of the scholar as a producer, of the
scholar as a consumer, and of the library as a custodian. The scholar
as a producer wants to see his manuscript set up in type, printed on
good paper, bound in buckram, and distributed in as large an edition
as possible. Although "book form" is an arbitrary and mechanical
criterion of scholarly value, it is given weight in academic circles.
The consumer interest is that of the man who is using a library. All
the documents of which he makes use are for him "materials for
research." He does not care whether they are printed or typewritten
or in manuscript form, whether durable or perishable, whether
original or photostat, so long as they are legible. Whether the
edition is large or small, whether the library buys, begs, or borrows
the material makes no difference to him so long as he can have it in
hand when he wants it. The custodian's interest has to do with the
demands of future generations of scholars. The growth of each library
must be so directed that its present acquisitions dovetail with past
and future acquisitions. The custodian must also undertake to gather
items for which there is no present demand on the part of the
"consumer"; he may seek especially to care for the unique things
which are nowhere else collected and preserved. That these interests
may be difficult to reconcile with each other is illustrated both in
the production and in the distribution of material.

In the production of books the line of technical development has been
in the direction of lower costs for larger editions. Rotary presses
and wood-pulp paper, as well as the sales and promotion policies {% include pagebreak.html canvas=20 %} of
publishers, emphasize the importance of securing a wide market.
But scholarship, with its tendency to increased specialization, has
been constantly diminishing the number of probable users of any given
scholarly publication. Publishers' requirements are met with
impermanent papers, while the custodians' interests call for maximum
permanence.

In the distribution of books, that is to say, in the formulating of
library acquisition policies, the consumer and custodian interests
clash. The graduate schools are feeding into the university and
college system a highly trained personnel, expected to pursue
research work along with teaching. To secure the maximum of research
effort from this teaching personnel, the libraries should be so
equipped that any scholar can pick up his work and go on with it
wherever he may happen to be teaching. In the attempt to meet the
need, library funds are turned this way and that, regardless of
long-term policies, to supply the research requirements of the man
who happens to be on the ground. But this interferes with the
distribution of field among libraries, which is necessary if the
total resources of scholarship are to be used most efficiently in
collecting and preserving materials.

An inquiry into the techniques of reproducing research materials is
called for at the present time because there are coming to light new
processes and devices which, taken in their entirety, promise to have
an impact on the intellectual world comparable with that of the
invention of printing. The typewriter and the photo{% include columnbreak.html col="2" canvas=20 %}stat
were the precursors of the array of new devices, among which the
planograph, or photo-offset, and the miniature film copy have the
most interesting possible applications. The photo-offset process now
controls the bringing back into print of old books, pamphlets, and
journals. A few more inventions along the present line of
technological development may result in rendering "reprinting" a kind
of simple addition to the functions of a library, as photostating has
come to be. The use of miniature film copies is in its very infancy,
but progress along its line of development would tend to bring the
cost of making a unique copy of a book lower than the normal original
purchase price, lower perhaps than the cost of mailing and returning
an inter-library loan---a situation with revolutionary implications.
Book and journals publishing, now taken for granted as the sole
channels for the flow of an intellectual product, may be challenged
by the consequences of these technological changes. Perhaps the time
may come when the internal documents of scholarship will circulate
like the internal documents of a great business enterprise, with the
journal and the book appearing in their present volume as vehicles of
communication, but supplemented by innumerable memoranda drawn up and
multiplied by inexpensive office duplicating processes. Such
possibilities lie in the realm of dream and prophecy. For the present
there is required only an attentive watching of the new processes and
an effort to compare them, fitting each one into its most appropriate
place.
