{% include pagebreak.html canvas=33 %} 

{% include pagebreak.html canvas=34 %} 

## FIGURE I 

This figure, showing a page of 10—point Century and a page of 10-point Granjon, 
both leaded two points, gives a comparison of the varying word content made possible by the use of different type faces of the same point size. These pages 
were reproduced from the Wolff Type Book with the kind permission of the Wolff 
Book Manufacturing Company. 

10 POINT CENTURY 

THE "RED DEATH" had long devastated the country. 
No pestilence had ever been so fatal, or so hideous. 
Blood was it Avatar and its seal---the redness and 
the horror of blood. There were sharp pains, and sudden dizziness, and then profuse bleeding at the pores, 
with dissolution. The scarlet stains upon the body 
and especially upon the face of the victim, were the 
pest ban which shut him out from the aid and from 
the sympathy of his fellow-men. And the whole seizure, progress and termination of the disease, were 
the incidents of half an hour. But the Prince Prospero was happy and dauntless and sagacious. When 
his dominions were half depopulated, he summoned 
to his presence a thousand hale and light-hearted 
friends from among the knights and dames of his 
court, and with these retired to the deep seclusion of 
one of his castellated abbeys. *This was an extensive 
and magnificent structure,* the creation of the 
prince's own eccentric yet august taste. A strong and 
lofty wall girdled it in. This wall had gates of iron. 
The courtiers, having entered, brought furnaces and 
massy hammers and welded the bolts. They resolved 
to leave means neither of ingress nor egress to the 
sudden impulses of despair or of frenzy from within. 
The abbey was amply provisioned. With such precautions the courtiers might bid defiance to contagion. The external world could take care of itself. In 
the mean time it was folly to grieve, or to think. The 
prince had provided all the appliances of pleasure. 
There were buffoons, there were improvisatori, there 
were ballet-dancers, there were musicians, there was 
Beauty, there was wine. All these and security were 
within. Without was the "Red Death." It was toward 

291 WORDS 33 LINES 2 POINT LEAD 

 {% include columnbreak.html canvas=34 col=2 %} 

10 POINT GRANJON 

THE "Red Death" had long devastated the country. No pestilence had ever been so fatal, or so hideous. Blood was its Avatar and its seal---the redness and the horror of blood. There 
were sharp pains, and sudden dizziness, and then profuse 
bleeding at the pores, with dissolution. The scarlet stains upon 
the body and especially upon the face of the victim, were the 
pest ban which shut him out from the aid and from the sympathy of his fellow-men. And the whole seizure, progress and 
termination of the disease, were the incidents of half an hour. 
But the Prince Prospero was happy and dauntless and sagacious. When his dominions were half depopulated, he summoned to his presence a thousand hale and light-hearted friends 
from among the knights and dames of his court, and with 
these retired to the deep seclusion of one of his castellated 
abbeys. *This was an extensive and magnificent structure,* the 
creation of the prince's own eccentric yet august taste. A strong 
and lofty wall girdled it in. This wall had gates of iron. The 
courtiers, having entered, brought furnaces and massy hammers and welded the bolts. They resolved to leave means 
neither of ingress nor egress to the sudden impulses of despair 
or of frenzy from within. The abbey was amply provisioned. 
With such precautions the courtiers might bid defiance to contagion. The external world could take care of itself. In the 
mean time it was folly to grieve, or to think. The prince had 
provided all the appliances of pleasure. There were buffoons, 
there were improvisatori, there were ballet-dancers, there were 
musicians, there was Beauty, there was wine. All these and 
security were within. Without was the "Red Death." It was 
toward the close of the fifth or sixth month of his seclusion, 
and while the pestilence raged most furiously abroad, that 
the Prince Prospero entertained his thousand friends at a 
masked ball of the most unusual magnificence. It was a voluptuous scene, that masquerade. But first let me tell of the rooms 

342 WORDS 33 LINES 2 POINT LEAD 

 {% include pagebreak.html canvas=35 %} 
 {% include pagebreak.html canvas=36 %} 

Sample Page to Illustrate Letterpress Format on 6¾"x9¼" Page 

AN ECONOMICAL PRINT-FACE FORMAT 

In order to secure an economical print-face format, various factors must be 
taken into consideration. Among these are the compactness and size of the 
type-face, the amount of leading, and the width of the margins. 

In discussing type-sizes and type-faces, it may be well to know of the graduated or uniform scale for measuring type which is now used by American 
type-founders. This scale is known as the point system. The unit of the system is a division of space called a point, which is .013837 or 1/72 of an inch. 
All type sizes are multiples of this unit of measurement. The smallest type 
generally used is 5-point or Pearl. 6-point or Nonpareil and 8-point or Brevier are frequently used for footnotes in monographic work. 7-point or 
Minion is commonly used for newsprint. 10-point or Long Primer is best 
suited for regular book composition. Examples of these type-sizes can conveniently be found by looking under "type" in Webster's International Dictionary of the English Language. The use of a type-size smaller than 10-point 
effects an economy in make-up and make-ready but not in composition, for 
a given manuscript will require approximately the same number of "ems" 
in various sizes of type. 

As a given font of type has an exact point-size in its depth, so the individual 
characters of that font have a definite width of "set." The average width of 
the character "m" in a type-face is as great as its depth; in a word, the letter 
"m" is exactly square. This is the case in commonly used type-faces like Caslon Old Style, Scotch Roman and Modern, where in 10-point the set size of 
the letter "m" is also 10 points. In a compact type-face, like the one used for 
this composition, the set size of the letter "m" is only 94 points, with all other 
characters having a corresponding compactness. By the use of this type-face, 
known as Granjon, a considerable saving can be effected in composition costs 
if these are reckoned up by multiplying the width by che length of the line. 
If composition costs are determined by the number of key-strokes instead of 
the amount of type matter, this type-face would effect a saving not in composition costs, but in area costs only. 

Excessive leading is not compatible with good value in book-making, and 
should be prevented, if possible, by instructions by the publisher to the printer. 
The type of this page is leaded one point; in a word, 11-point type is cast 
on a 12-point body. 

Much space is often wasted in margins. The formula for margins given by 
Gress<sup>1</sup> calls for top and back margin to be equal; the outside to be equal 
to the top plus one-third of the back margin; and the bottom to be equal to 
the outside margin plus two picas (or about one-fourth inch). This formula 
is followed in the format here illustrated. 

This page format has been designed by the R. R. Donnelley & Sons Company of Chicago as one taking account of the economies possible in page 

1. W. B. Gress, *Advanced Typography* (Washington, 1931), p. 125. 
