## FIGURE II 

 {% include pagebreak.html canvas=35 %} 

 {% include pagebreak.html canvas=36 %} 

Sample Page to Illustrate Letterpress Format on 6¾"x9¼"
Page 

AN ECONOMICAL PRINT-FACE FORMAT 

A two-column page is economical because 
it permits a fuller utilization of the page size. 
The width of the margins can be decreased 
without loss of proportion, while the size of 
type can be reduced without serious loss of 
legibility. Thus the word content of a page 
can be very materially increased. 

In constructing a two-column page format, 
the relationship between the line length and 
the type-size as a factor affecting legibility is 
an important consideration. The most significant work in establishing this relationship 
has been done by M. A. Tinker and D. G. 
Paterson at the University of Minnesota. In a 
series of articles in the *Journal of Applied Psychology* their experimental investigations are 
described. In the April 1929 issue on pages 
120-130 is found a report in regard to the 
"Size of Type." After experimenting with 
6, 8, 10, 12, and 14 points of type, Paterson 
and Tinker concluded that "10 point type 
yields the fastest reading and is thus the optimum size of type for efficient reading." They 
also pointed out, in the course of their discussion, that "one is seldom justified in reducing 
printing space to such a degree that speed of 
reading is markedly decreased." In the June 
1929 issue on pages 205-19 Paterson and 
Tinker report on the "Length of Line." 
After investigating texts in 10-point type in 
59, 80, 97, 114, 136, 152, 168, and 186 mm. 
line lengths, they believe the conclusion is 
justified that "for 10 point type, an 80 mm. 
(or 19 pica) line yields the fastest reading 
and is therefore the optimum length of line 
for efficient reading." In the February 1931 
issue on pages 72-78, Tinker and Paterson 
report on the "Simultaneous Variation of 
Type and Line Length." They investigated 
the legibility of 6, 8, 10, 12, and 14 point 
types set in line lengths, proportionally increased or decreased from 10-point on 19 
picas. Thus 6-point was set in a 16 pica, 8-point in a 17 pica, 10-point in a 19 pica, 12-point in a 23 pica, and 14-point in a 27 pica 
line. Their conclusions are the following: 

> The results obtained in this experiment seem to 
  justify the conclusion that line for line arrangements 
  varying from a standard text printed in 10 point with {% include columnbreak.html canvas=38 col=2 %} an optimal line length of 19 picas yield equally efficient reading performance for 8 and 10 point type, 
  and possibly for larger sizes. The evidence shows that 
  6 point type with line length reduced as stated is 
  read at a significantly slower rate. 

> The experiment yields evidence that, within certain limits, neither size of type nor line length as 
  single variables can be relied upon in determining 
  optimal typographical arrangements. Both factors 
  (and perhaps others as well) work hand in hand 
  and must be properly balanced to produce a printed 
  page which will promote the maximum reading rate. 

The typescript pages of this book are arranged in a two-column format with a line 
length approximating the optimal line length 
for 10-point type. Since it is difficult to find 
the typescript equivalent of 10-point type, it 
is not possible to determine whether the typescript size used in this book will yield the 
tastest reading, but it is likely that it approaches the optimum size of type for efficient reading. 

This double-column format in print-face 
has a printing surface of 5¼ x 7¼ inches, 
with line lengths of 15 picas. The type-size 
used is 10-point for the regular composition 
and 8-point for the two paragraphs of quotation. The type-face is Granjon. It has been 
possible to prepare this page through the 
courtesy of the R. R. Donnelley & Sons Company of Chicago. 

A two-coluinn page is economical because 
it permits a fuller utilization of the page size. 
The width of the margins can be decreased 
without loss of proportion, while the size of 
type can be reduced without serious loss of 
legibility. Thus the word content of a page 
can be very materially increased. 

In constructing a two-column page format, 
the relationship between the line length and 
the type-size as a factor affecting legibility 
is an important consideration. The most sig- 
nificant work in establishing this relationship 
has been done by M. A. Tinker and D. G. 
Paterson at the University. of Minnesota. In 
a series of articles in the *Journal of Applied 
Psychology* their experimental investigations 
are described. In the April 1929 issue on 
pages 120--130 is found a report in regard to 
the "Size of Type." After experimenting with 
6, 8, 10, 12, and 14 points of type, Paterson 
