 {% include pagebreak.html canvas=41 %} 
 {% include pagebreak.html canvas=42 %} 

FIGURE IV 

This figure, showing a page of 8-point Bodoni and a page of 10-point Bodoni type, 
both leaded one point, gives a comparison of the varying word content made possible by the use of different size type in the same face. These pages were reproduced from the Wolff Type Book with the kind permission of the Wolff Book Manufacturing Company. 

10-POINT BODONI 

THE "RED DEATH" had long devastated the country. No 
pestilence had ever been so fatal, or so hideous. Blood 
was its Avatar and its seal---the redness and the horror 
of blood. There were sharp pains, and sudden dizziness, 
and then profuse bleeding at the pores, with dissolution. 
The scarlet stains upon the body and especially upon the 
face of the victim, were the pest ban which shut him out 
from the aid and from the sympathy of his fellow-men. 
And the whole seizure, progress and termination of the 
disease, were the incidents of half an hour. But the 
Prince Prospero was happy and dauntless and sagacious. 
When his dominions were half depopulated, he summoned to his presence a thousand hale and light-hearted 
friends from among the knights and dames of his court, 
and with these retired to the deep seclusion of one of his 
castellated abbeys. This was an extensive and magnificent structure, the creation of the prince's own eccentric 
yet august taste. A strong and lofty wall girdled it in. 
This wall had gates of iron. The courtiers, having entered, brought furnaces and massy hammers and welded 
the bolts. They resolved to leave means neither of ingress nor egress to the sudden impulses of despair or of 
frenzy from within. The abbey was amply provisioned. 
With such precautions the courtiers might bid defiance 
to contagion. The external world could take care of 
itself. In the mean time it was folly to grieve, or to 
think. The prince had provided all the appliances of 
pleasure. There were buffoons, there were improvisatori, 
there were ballet-dancers, there were musicians, there 
was Beauty, there was wine. All these and security were 
within. Without was the "Red Death." It was toward 
the close of the fifth or sixth month of his seclusion, 
and while the pestilence raged most furiously abroad, 
that the Prince Prospero entertained his thousand 
friends at a masked ball of the most unusual magnificence. It was a voluptuous scene, that masquerade. But 

335 WORDS 36 LINES 1 POINT LEAD 

 {% include columnbreak.html canvas=42 col=2 %} 8-POINT BODONI 

THE "RED DEATH" had long devastated the councry. No pestilence 
had ever been so fatal, or so hideous. Blood was its Avatar and 
its seal---the redness and the horror of blood. There were sharp 
pains, and sudden dizziness, and then profuse bleeding at the 
pores, with dissolution. The scarlet stains upon the body and especially upon the face of the victim, were the pest ban which shut 
him out from the aid and from the sympathy of his fellow-men. 
And the whole seizure, progress and termination of the disease, 
were the incidents of half an hour. But the Prince Prospero was 
happy and dauntless and sagacious. When his dominions were 
half depopulated, he summoned to his presence a thousand hale 
and light-hearted friends from among the knights and dames of 
his court, and with these retired to the deep seclusion of one 
of his castellated abbeys. This was an extensive and magnificent 
structure, the creation of the prince's own eccentric yet august 
taste. A strong and lofty wall girdled it in. This wall had gates 
of iron. The courtiers, having entered, brought furnaces and massy 
hammers and welded the bolts. They resolved to leave means 
neither of ingress nor egress to the sudden impulses of despair 
or of frenzy from within. The abbey was amply provisioned. 
With such precautions the courtiers might bid defiance to contagion. The external world could take care of itself. In the mean 
time it was folly to grieve, or to think. The prince had provided 
all the appliances of pleasure. There were buffoons, there were 
improvisatori, there were ballet-dancers, there were musicians, 
there was Beauty, there was wine. All these and security were 
within. Without was the "Red Death." It was toward the close 
of the fifth or sixth month of his seclusion, and while the pestilence raged most furiously abroad, that the Prince Prospero entertained his thousand friends at a masked ball of the most unusual magnificence. It was a voluptuous scene, that masquerade. 
But first let me tell of the rooms in which it was held. There 
were seven---an imperial suite. In many palaces, however, such 
suites form a long and straight vista, while the folding-doors 
slide back nearly to the walls on either hand, so that the view 
of the whole extent is scarcely impeded. Here the case was very 
different; as might have been expected from the prince's love of 
the bizarre. The apartments were so irregularly disposed that the 
vision embraced but little more than one at a time. There was a 
sharp turn at every twenty or thirty yards, and at each turn a 
novel effect. To the right and left, in the middle of each wall, a 
tall and narrow Gothic window looked out upon a closed corridor which pursued the windings of the suite. These windows 
were of stained glass whose colour varied in accordance with 

485 WORDS 44 LINES 1 POINT LEAD 

ERRATA 

Page 17, first column, twelfth line from the 
bottom which now reads "...would yield 800 
pages, 24,600 words", should read, "...would 
yield 800 words per page, 24,600 words...." 
