\[FIGURE VI\]

AN ECONOMICAL MIMEOFORM FORMAT 

{% include osd_iiif_image_viewer.html region="0,0,2666,3708" id="figure_figure_06" canvas="47" height="120vh" %}

(Paper size 6 x 9 inches) 

(12 pt. type) 

The Multigraph, employed chiefly for printing 
form letters, becomes a factor in the field of reproduction, when used in combination with type-setting 
machinery. 

The best adaptation in the field of reproduction 
has been made by Mimeoform Press, 1320 F Street, 
N. W., Washington, D. C., under the direction of 
Mr. Ernest Kletsch, who styles his process the Mimeoform Process. Mr. Kletsch uses a Lanston monotype for setting type, with a special take off, which 
delivers the line of short type, properly spaced and 
justified, to the channels of the multigraph drum in 
**page form**, doing away with galley proof. Proof 
reading done, corrections are quickly made away 
from caster. Type-setting is combined with make-up, and running costs, in small editions, are smaller 
than the cost of making signatures for the flat-bed 
press; the Mimeoform Process, therefore, is the 
cheapest method of presenting textual matter in 
print-face type, in editions up to five hundred. 

Publishing by Mimeoform Process demands 
spacing of **six lines to the inch regardless of 
type size** (8, 10, and 12 point). Illustrations, even 
half tones can be combined with text at no greater 
cost than for printing, if curved plates are provided. 
The most economical Mimeoform format is an 8-1/2" by 11" page, set in ten-point type. 
