{% include osd_iiif_image_viewer.html region="0,0,2666,3708" id="figure_15" canvas="77" height="120vh" %}

11-POINT PRINT-FACE 

This is a specimen of 11-point Modern No. 8, 
which is assumed to be the equivalent of Pica 
typescript. 

This is a specimen of 11-point Bruce Old Style, 
which is assumed to be the equivalent of Pica 
typescript. 

This is a specimen of 12-point Garamont, 
which is assumed to be the equivalent of 
Pica typescript. 

9-POINT PRINT-FACE 

This is a specimen of 9-point Modern No. 8, which is assumed to be the equivalent of Elite typescript. 

This is a specimen of g-point Bruce Old-Style, a beautiful 
book face. 

This is a specimen of 10-point Garamont, a very economical book face. 

7-POINT PRINT-FACE 

This is a specimen of 7-point Modern No. 8, which is assumed to 
be the equivalent of Pica typescript reduced 30 per cent 

This is a specimen of 7-point Bruce Old Style. This size of type is generally used for newsprint. 

This is a specimen of 8-point Garamont. 

6-POINT PRINT-FACE 

This is a specimen of 6-point Modern No. 8, which is assumed to be the 
equivalent of Pica typescript reduced 50 per cent. 

This is a specimen of 6-point Bruce Old Style. Occasionally this type size is used 
for footnotes. 

This is a specimen of 6-point Garamont.{%- include columnbreak.html canvas=77 col=2 %} 

FULL SIZE PICA TYPE 

This is a specimen of pica type 
photographed full size. 

FULL SIZE ELITE TYPE 

This is a specimen of elite type 
photographed full size. 

PICA TYPE REDUCED 

This is a specimen of pica type 
reduced 30%. 

This is a specimen of micro-elite type photo- 
graphed full size, which is assumed to be the 
equivalent of pica reduced 28% to 30%. 

PICA TYPE REDUCED 

This is a specimen of pica type reduced 50 per cent. 

FIGURE XV 
