{% include osd_iiif_image_viewer.html id="figure_16a" xywh="full" canvas="79" %}

THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY INVENTION
SINCE the ADVENT of PHOTOLITHOGRAPHY

Simple Paper Permits Alignment of Typewriting 

Scholars have been slow to accept photolithography as a solution of the problem of 
scholarly publishing because of the unconventional format which is produced by typescript.
Because of the equal spacing produced by the 
conventional typewriter, a compromise had to 
be made in the design of the letters so that 
wide and narrow letters would occupy the same 
space. The result was that a letter such as 
'm' had to be condensed, and a narrow letter 
such as 'i' had to be extended. 

The fallacy of attempting to put regular 
printing types on the ordinary equal space 
typewriter is illustrated in the following 
paragraphs. The copy in the first paragraph 
was set up by a printer in the usual manner, 
without any attempt at justification. It was 
then reset, as it would appear if the type 
used were attached to the conventional typewriter. The lower case 'w' was used as the 
standard of horizontal spacing. 

> Authorities agree that William Caslon was influenced greatly in the design of his famous face 
  by Dutch types which were used widely in England when he started his work. As D. B. Updike 
  points out, while Caslon "modelled his letters on

> wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww

> Authorities agree that William Caslon was influenced greatly in the design of his famous face 
  by Dutch types which were used widely in England when he started his work. As D. B. Updike 
  points out, while Caslon "modelled his letters on

The typewriter, moreover, does not produce 
justified lines, leaving an uneven right-hand 
margin so unusual in book printing that conventional taste will prevent the ready acceptance of typescript books. Fortunately it is 
now possible by the use of Vogeltype Aligning 
Paper to overcome one of the greatest objections to the use of typescript in scholarly 
work. The invention also permits the production of many sizes and styles of type without 
any change in the typewriter keyboard, as 
illustrated in the headlines on this page. 

By producing a justified right-hand margin, 
typescript approaches printface in appearance. 
Doubtless through the development of a typewriter having automatic variable spacing, 
 {% include columnbreak.html canvas=79 col=2 %} 
such as was built into the first typewriters 
invented, and type similar to ordinary printface, it will be possible for a scholar at 
his desk to produce a page format which can 
not be distinguished from real typeset matter. 
Thus modern technology, curiously, will bring 
man back to the conditions of the Middle Ages, 
when the scholar often was his own scribe. 

A new stretchable paper permits typewritten 
copy to be aligned evenly on right-hand edges, 
allows lithographic production of books, briefs, 
etc., closely resembling printing, but cheaper 

Scholars, moreover, Will be able to illustrate their texts with photographs, graphs 
and tabular matter simply by making a pasteup 
combining illustrations and text. The photolithographic process allows great flexibility 
in preparing copy. Thus the above photograph 
of Vogeltype Aligning Paper was reproduced on 
a plate for the offset press by simply pasting a clipping from a magazine into its position in the text. 

The greatly reduced reproductions on the 
reverse side of this page illustrate some of 
the many applications of Vogeltype Aligning 
Paper. Books, bulletins, house organs, proceedings of meetings, circulars, theses and 
lectures are now produced without the expense 
of type composition and engravings. 
