FIGURE XVII 

MASTER COPY FOR PHOTO OFFSET PRINTING

{% include osd_iiif_image_viewer.html id="17" xywh="full" canvas="82" %}

Business men throughout the country, particularly 
those known as printers, are well aware of the fact 
that a new printing process is here, and that very 
large savings are possible from its use. This new 
method is known as *Offset Lithography*. It is a simple process, fast and inexpensive. Illustrations 
can be used at no extra cost for plates. Business 
offices are finding it desirable to install offset 
presses, and many hundreds of these machines are turning out work that is satisfactory in every way. Speed 
and economy are the factors that create interest. 
Where the cost of the offset press is too much for 
the smaller business offices, it is the practice for 
such offices to make their own master copy and send 
same to a commercial offset house to be printed. 

The great problem in Photo Offset work is met in the 
making of the *master copy*. The copy may be printed 
from type set up by a printer, composed on a linotype, written by a typewriter, or by the *Vari-typer 
Composing Machine*, built especially for this work. 
Type-set or linotype copy is too expensive, for after the matter is set up, the greatest part of the 
printing cost has then been incurred. Typewriting 
is very unsatisfactory, because only one style of 
type can be used on any one machine. Typewritten 
matter is cold and anemic to the artistic eye, and 
creates the very effect most business men are trying 
to escape. The only real composing machine which 
will write copy at a low cost, and at the same time 
absolutely delight the person interested, is the 
*Vari-typer*, manufactured in New York City by the 
Ralph C. Coxhead Corporation. It must be stated here, 
however, that as with most machines, the degree of 
satisfaction will vary with the intelligence and artistry of the operator. 

The *Vari-typer* is constructed to use different type 
plates, of which more than sixty in English are available, and more than two-hundred in foreign languages. 
Type may be changed instantly. *Variable character 
spacing* is a feature of each machine, which means that 
letters may be written at as many characters to the 
inch as the different sizes of type make necessary, 
limited, of course, to 3 different spacings on any 
one machine. These three may be any combination of 
the spacings 10, 12, 14 or 16 letters to the inch. 
This machine also permits the use of six *different 
vertical or line spacings*. The keyboard is easy to 
operate especially if the operator has had typewriter 
experience as the touch system is used for both and 
the keyboards are almost exactly alike. 

Provision is made for **LARGE BOLD HEADINGS** *and this 
effect is very cleverly produced. Justification of 
the right hand margin* requires first writing of the 
copy so as to determine what adjustment is necessary 
and to so indicate at the end of each line. This 
adjustment is provided for by absorption or extension in the second writing by use of a device called 
the *half-back spacer*. This method prevents the rivers of white space so common to justification when 
attempted by typewriters and which is so objectionable to good printers. 
 {% include columnbreak.html canvas=82 col=2 %} 

*Vari-typer* is manufactured in many models to meet 
different requirements. The special machine which 
the Coxhead Corporation builds for the *Photo Offset* 
Field, is equipped with special mechanism to handle 
carbon paper ribbon in addition to cotton and silk 
ribbons. The *carbon paper ribbons* produce remarkably 
clean cut work and a specially constructed ribbon, 
300 feet in length, is used which is different than 
any other ribbon on the market. This ribbon does 
not travel when the space bar is used, thus producing a considerable economy. 

Recently this Company produced a new type plate with 
all metal construction which is a great improvement 
over anything so far offered to the trade. It is 
called *Krometal* and produces copy that should please 
those who like artistic results. Most of the plates 
used on the *Vari-typer Composing Machines* are being 
built under the new *Krometal* process. 

Writers of manuscript find many features that *Vari-typer* provides, of unusual value. The advantages 
that follow the ability to use *italics* in marking 
passages for emphasis is an example. As the machine 
is always loaded with two type plates, the operator 
may change instantly from one to the other by a simple movement of the wrist. The *variation of type* is 
of tremendous interest to all writers. 

Statisticians, librarians, accountants are very enthusiastic over the condensation possibilities of 
the *Vari-typer* through the use of proper typography. 
Large statements may be reduced as much as 50% without detracting from the readability. One large concern in Cleveland, Ohio, we are told, uses nine *Vari-typers* on the writing of statements in *condensed 
form*. The results are very pleasing to executives. 

Footnotes are outstanding in their effect when written with the type appropriate for this purpose. 

The Coxhead Company is continually working on new 
styles of type and are always interested in discussing this subject with the business and professional 
man. 

Considering the work that this composing machine 
does, the cost is very reasonable. It is well known 
that composition forms the greater part of printing 
prices and it does seem that the *Vari-typer* can soon 
save its cost to any business man interested in the 
subject. The fact that this machine is sold in almost every country of the world, is indication that 
it solves one problem of the office executive, that 
of doing necessary work at a saving in cost and with 
the desired effect. 

Much thought should be given to the matter of composition for photo offset presses, as the saving to 
be made from the use of this process will soon disappear, if either the results are unsatisfactory, or 
the method used for composition proves too costly. 
It should not be forgotten that some reduction of 
copy through the camera will enhance the result. 
