FIGURE XVIII 

{% include osd_iiif_image_viewer.html region="full" id="18" canvas="85" height="120vh" %}

This is a sample mimeographed page to illustrate some of the type faces, type sizes, and 
corresponding vertical and horizontal spacings possible with the *Varityper machine*. This 
paragraph is written with *Miniature Roman type, in nine point size, with six lines to the 
inch.* This type lays down fourteen letters to the inch and is similar to the micro-elite 
type of the standard typewriter. When typing a text in which there are characters not in 
the Roman alphabet, the non—Roman characters may be available in a Varityper type plate, 
which costs $500 ($8.50 in metal). 

This is a paragraph written with *Petite 
type in eight point size, nine lines to  
the inch*. This type lays down sixteen 
letters to the inch and corresponds to 
the ultra-micro-elite type of the standard typewriter. For emphasis, bold 
characters of the same style as the rest 
 {% include columnbreak.html canvas=85 col=2 %} 
of the copy can be employed by the use 
of the hammer repeat key. Italic type
may also be used for emphasis. This is
an advantage over ordinary typing, where
underlining is the only method available
to indicate emphasis.

*To justify the right-hand margin, a 
page is typed in the ordinary way on 
sheet of paper; then the copy is
blue-pencilled to indicate places 
where the spaces can be extended or 
contracted. In the second typing, 
the extra letters are absorbed by  
crowding the spacing between the  
words or letters, using the half- 
back spacer, and the short lines
stretched out by increasing the 
spaces between the words or letters.*
 {% include columnbreak.html canvas=85 col=1 %} 

To justify the right-hand margin, a 
page is typed in the ordinary way on 
a sheet of paper; then the copy is
blue-pencilled to indicate places 
where the spaces can be extended or 
contracted. In the second typing, 
the extra letters are absorbed by  
crowding the spacing between the  
words or letters, using the half- 
back spacer, and the short lines
stretched out by increasing the 
spaces between the words or letters.

 {% include columnbreak.html canvas=85 col=2 %} 

*This paragraph demonstrates the Varityper's ability to condense statistics into a smaller area than is 
possible with the standard typewriter using ordinary pica or elite type:*

Comparison of a Quoted Printer's Estimate and a Quoted 
Varityper Estimate for 50 copies of a Forty-six Page 
Pamphlet. 

Printing

------:|--------
$117.50 | typesetting  
15.00 | make up 
22.00 | printing 
2.00 | stock 
4.00 | binding and collating 
$160.50 | 

Varityping 

-----|-----:
Varityping, justifying the lines, and running off on the Mimeograph . . . . |
| $60.00 

250 kinds of English and foreign type, 6 to 14 point can be used on one Varityper. 

THIS IS OVERSIZE PICA GOTHIC  

This is SMALL PRINT TYPE  

This is DIACRITICAL  
 {% include columnbreak.html canvas=85 col=2 %} 

This is MEDIUM PRINT 

This is ELITE GOTHIC 

THIS IS PETITE GOTHIC 
