FIGURE XXVI 

This sample page demonstrates Multilith direct typing. This 
page was produced by direct typing on a Multilith Duplex plate, 
which requires no preparation to receive the image. A special 
carbon typewriter ribbon was then used and the typing was done in 
the usual manner. The plate was then run off on the Model 1200 
Multilith, at the speed of approximately 5,000 impressions per hour. 

The cost of the Duplex plate was $.25, but since it is possible 
to use both sides of the plate the cost is reduced to $.12½ per image. 
The solutions necessary to prepare the plate for running were $.02½ 
bringing the total cost of the printing surface to $.15 an image in 
this form. 

The surface of the duplex plate is also receptive to crayon, 
ink, and regular fabric typewriter ribbons of the proper inking. 
The surface of this plate can be used only once to each side. It is 
possible to obtain five to ten thousand impressions from the duplex 
plate. 

The Multilith Zinc plate, which has a grain on only one side, 
is also receptive to the above mentioned methods of direct work, after 
being treated with a solution of Deoxit. 

The cost of the zinc plate is $.35, but the surface of this 
plate can be cleaned, and re-employed three or four times. The plate 
is cleaned by applying a solution of Blankrolla to the surface to 
wipe out the first image. It is then resensitized with a solution 
of Deoxit. 

The life of the Multilith zinc plate direct image is from five to 
ten thousand impressions, but by the application of a solution called 
intensifier it can be extended from five to ten thousand impressions. 


