<div style="text-align: center">

A PROJECT FOR THE REPRODUCTION AND DISTRIBUTION OF   
MATERIALS FOR RESEARCH IN SMALL EDITIONS   
under consideration by the   
Joint Committee on Materials for Research   
of the   
American Council of Learned Societies   
and the   
Social Science Research Council 

</div>

I. The Problem. 

The term, materials for research, is 
here understood to refer to materials of 
three types: (1) reprints of out-of-print 
or rare items, --- books, pamphlets, newspaper or periodical files; (2) source material of considerable bulk, which in most 
cases would be copied and edited, but in 
some cases, merely reproduced in facsimile; (3) the original work of scholars, 
generally in the form of monographs. 

Such materials for research are at 
present published by agencies of three 
types, each specializing in publications 
for which a sale of different size may be 
expected: (1) commercial publishers ordinarily issue books of which a thousand 
or more copies will be sold; (2) university presses specialize in books with a 
total sale averaging less than a thousand 
copies; (3) learned societies for the most 
part issue books with a total sale of 
less than three hundred copies. 

Since the cost of printing materials 
for research can seldom be covered by a 
sale of less than four hundred copies at 
normal prices (1.2 cents per page, or 375 
words for a cent), almost all such publications as the learned societies now issue 
must be subsidized, usually to the extent 
of two-thirds of their cost. Books issued 
by the university presses, of which as 
many as six hundred copies are sold, must {% include columnbreak.html canvas=133 col=2 %} also ordinarily be subsidized, to the extent of one-third of their cost. Nor is 
the need for subsidies confined to agencies 
of the second and third types: commercial
publishers have frequently found it necessary to ask subsidies for books for which 
a sale of a thousand copies cannot be anticipated. In fact, experience has shown 
that the publication of materials for research is seldom possible at present without a subsidy to cover at least a part of 
the loss incurred. 

The small sale for these publications 
is probably due in the last analysis to 
the rapid advance of specialization, which 
has so far removed from general knowledge 
publications that are essential to further
advance as to restrict their appreciation 
to specialists. But the restricted market 
that they might command is still further 
diminished by the apparent preference of 
American scholars for depending on libraries to obtain the materials they need, 
rather than for purchasing them for personal use. So long as this preference prevails, provision will have to be made for 
reproducing and distributing materials for 
research in the small editions that the 
market can absorb, if material essential 
to the progress of research is to be made 
available for the use of scholars. 

For most publications of this kind, 
subsidies will in any case be necessary, 

FIGURE XXX 
