FIGURE XXXI 

{% include osd_iiif_image_viewer.html xywh="292,358,2029,2794" canvas="137" id="137" height="120vh" %}

This page illustrates a photo-offset 
format that has been designed to conform to 
the cost levels of medium-priced mimeographing. The essential significance of 
this page is to show that (a) photo-offset 
costs can be brought down to the level of 
mimeographing, and (b) when photo-offset 
formats are designed for this cost level, 
their legibility diminishes below that of 
the corresponding mimeograph copy. To 
demonstrate this fact, the reader is asked 
to compare this page with Figure XXVII, a 
mimeograph format that is in the same cost 
range. A book of 50,000 words, reproduced 
in this format, would cost $158.00, including the cost of typing the master copy. Allowing $62.50 for the composition cost, a 
sum of $95.50 is left to pay for the running costs. This amount of money will buy 
500 copies of forty-four pages, size 6″ 
x 94″, To put 50,000 words on forty-four 
pages, there must be 1136 words on a page, 
or 568 words per column in a two-column 
format such as this one. 

To fit these specifications, the master copy is typed in two columns, each column being 4.4″ wide and 17″ long. Pica 
type with an interlinear spacing of five 
lines to the inch is used. The master copy 
is then given to the photo-offset establishment with instructions that it is to be 
reduced 50%. This sample page illustrates 
the appearance of the final product. The 
reader may judge for himself the diminishing curve of legibility as the amount of 
money available for running costs decreases. 
This extremely low-priced photo-offset format may be compared with a medium-priced 
mimeographing format which also costs 
$158.00 for 50,000 words. 
