Figure XXXII

This photo-offset format is 
to accommodate 1768 words to the 
reproduce a book of 50,000 words 
offset at the same cost level as that of 
mimeographing, this three-column photo-offset format can be used, putting 595 
words in each column; or the format illustrated in Figure XXXI can be followed, using 
a two-column arrangement on a 6″ x 9½″
page. Both pages, of course, by attempting to approximate the cost range of the 
Mimeograph approach very close to the lower limits of legibility. The $158.00 that 
is necessary either for the mimeographing 
of 50,000 words or for the photo-offsetting of 50,000 words in this format, is 
probably best used for the mimeograph. 

Using Hoch's figures, as given in 
Chapter III, it is found that $95.50 will 
buy twenty-eight pages of size 84″ x 11″. 
This means the putting of 1768 words on a 
page to accommodate the 50,000 words of the 
manuscript. The reader may judge for 
himself the difference in legibility between this format, the format illustrated 
in Figure XXXI, and the mimeograph format 
of Figure XXVII. 

Again, as has been explained in the 
text, it is possible to give a larger proportion of the $158.00 to the running costs 
by either doing the typing personally and 
not counting the cost in, or by having it 
done by cheap labor. However, it is 
quite possible that the typing would be of 
such inferior quality that the amount 
saved for running costs would be much better spent for composition. 

This format again illustrates the saving that is made possible by the use of a 
special spacer. Five lines to the inch is 
used for this format, instead of the usual 
six lines to the inch (regular single 
spacing) which is too crowded for good 
legibility, or the three lines to the inch 
(regular double spacing) which is too widespread to be economical. 
