FIGURE XXXVI 

{% include osd_iiif_image_viewer.html xywh="292,358,2029,2794" canvas="152" id="152" height="120vh" %}

A SPECIMEN PAGE OF A SCRIBE BOOK 

For the artistic reproduction of a manuscript an alternative to the 
use of the usual type faces and of typescript presents itself that is as 
intriguing as it is simple. This alternative is the preparation by a trained 
scribe of the copy to be photographically reproduced by the photo-offset or 
photo-gelatine processes. 

The transition from writing to printing only gradually changed the appearance of book pages. The first printers, in fact, strove to make their 
books as nearly like manuscripts as possible. The Blasius copy of the Gutenberg 
Bible is said to have been represented as a manuscript by John Fust and to 
have been sold as such in Paris. The early printers designed type faces 
which imitated the form of letters with which they were familiar. The 
German printers copied the pointed style which later acquired the name 
of gothic and which had been used during the Middle Ages for producing the psalters, missals, breviaries, and the Bibles of the Church. The 
Italian printers developed a face in the humanistic style: a round, neat 
Script coming in with the Renaissance. This style became known as 
roman and reached its greatest perfection under Nicholas Jenson. Only 
gradually were type faces designed which were quite unlike the writing 
of the copyists of the Middle Ages. 

With the mass production of the twentieth century, there has come 
a standardization of type faces which tends to minimize the individuality 
of a book. But with the application of photography to printing the unique quality of the writing of trained scribes can recapture the artistry 
of individual workmanship. The books prepared by scribes possess a 
personality all their own. A conspicuous example of such a book is that produced by Anna Simons, the "Sonetti, Ballate, Sestine" of Dante 
Alighieri in the "Bibliotheca Manu Scripta". The cost of creating such 
books, of course, would vary with the individual scribes.
