FIGURE LXIIa 

This page was reduced 16 diameters. When so reduced, it was a rectangle the size of this figure: The two upper squares on the page 
were then enlarged back exactly 16 diameters. The two lower squares 
on the page were enlarged back 32 diameters, because the clipping 
and the typescript had been reduced to 50% of original size by 
photo-offset before they were again reduced by photography; 
therefore the total microphotographic reduction was 32 diameters, and an enlargement of 32 diameters was necessary to bring them back to full size. 


Photo-offset reproduction of 
newsprint reduced 16 diameters 
and enlarged back 16 diameters. 

---The Victorian Council Against 
War and Fascism sent a deputation 
today to the Italian Consul, Cava- 
lier Anzelotti, protesting against 
Italy's ''murderous attack upon 
helpless Abyssinians.'' 'The consul 
previously refused to see the depu- 
tation but agreed to see one repre- 
sentative. Two others forced their 
way into the room. 

The deputation declared it had 
been predicted that a Fascist gov- 
ernment would be the first to make 
war. Italy had been declared the 
aggressor in this war and unless 
the consul sent the council's for- 
mal protest to Italy, steps would 

Photo-offset reproduction of 
newsprint reduced 50% by photo- 
offset, then reduced 16 diameters by photography and enlarged 
back 32 diameters. 

Another disclosure was that the 
forty-five-pound forward anchor of 
the Penguin had been severed from 
its hawser with a sharp knife and 
Inspector King admitted it was pos 
sible that in that fact might lle the 
the surface of the wal 

Photo-offset reproduction of type- 
script reduced 16 diameters and en-— 
larged back 16 diameters. 

Stock...the same as for letter- 
press printing except that we 
cannot vrint enameled vaper hav- 
ing a heavy glue sizing. On the 
other hand, we can revroduce 
photographs and wash drawings in 
halftone on bond paner and other 
rough finish stocks that fold 
easily without cracking. 

Photo-offset reproduction of type- 
script reduced 50% by photo-offset, 
then reduced 16 diameters by photography and enlarged back 32 diameters. 

STOCK....the same as 
printing except that we 
eled paper having a he 
the other hand, we can 
and wash drawings in h 
and other rough finis 
easily without cracking 

This page was sent to various photographers as a test sheet; this original 
is here reproduced directly by the photo-offset process; the following exhibit, Figure LXIIb, has been passed through a reduction of sixteen diameters and an enlargement of sixteen and thirty-two diameters. 
