FIGURE LXIIb 

{% include osd_iiif_image_viewer.html id="figure_62b" canvas="271" height="120vh" %}

This page was reduced 16 diameters. When so reduced, it was a rectangle the size of this figure: The two upper squares on the page 
were then enlarged back exactly 16 diameters. The two lower squares 
on the page were enlarged back 32 diameters, because the clipping 
and the typescript had been reduced to 50% of original size by 
photo-offset before they were again reduced by photography; therefore the 
total micro-photographic reduction was 32 diameters, and an enlargement of 32 
diameters was necessary to bring them back to full size. 


Photo-offset reproduction of typescript reduced 16 diameters and enlarged back 16 diameters. 

---The Victorian Council Against 
War and Fascism sent a deputation 
today to the Italian Consul, Cava- 
Her Afhszelotti, protesting against 
Italy's ''murderous attack upon 
helpless Abyssinians."" The consul 
previously refused to see the depu- 
tation but agreed to see one repre- 
sentative. Two others forced their 
into the room. 

The deputation declared it had 
been predicted that a Fascist gov- 
ernment would be the first to make 
deciared the 
the 
mal protest to Italy, steps would 


Photo-offset reproduction of 
newsprint reduced 16 diameters 
and enlarged back 16 diameters. 

Stock...the same as for letter- 
press printing except that we 
cannot print enameled paper hav- 
ing a heavy glue sizing. On the 
other hand, we can reproduce 
photographs and wash drawings in 
halftone on bond paper and other 
rough finish stocks that fold 
easily without cracking. 

Photo-offset reproduction of typescript 
reduced 50% by photo-offset, then reduced 16 diameters by photography and 
enlarged back 32 diameters. 

Another disclosure was that the 
forty-Cive pouad forward apchér of 
the Penguin had been severed from 
ite haweer with a eharp kuife and 
Inspector King admitted it was poe 
sible that {m that fact might He the 
eaplanation of why the missing 
man's body has not been found If 
Colltags, en expert swimmer hed 
been tied to a length of rope made 
fast to the anehor ia the sisllow 
we'er of the cove fe might have heen 
able to keep afloat for a time only 
to elm at last from exhaustion. 

Dtetriet Attorsey Edwardes, diesat- 
lofie@ with the resuita of eearching 
the surface of the waters of the 

Photo-offset reproduction of 
newsprint reduced 50% by photo- 
offset, then reduced 16 dian- 
eters by photography and en- 
larged back 32 diameters. 

STOCK....the same as 
printing except that we 
eled paper having a he 
the other hand, we can 
and wash drawings in h 
and other rough finis 
easily without cracking 

This page was photographed with a Leica Camera, at the Huntington 
Library, San Marino, California, under the supervision of 
Dr.L.Bendikson, by E.F.Morkisch, 
