{% include osd_iiif_image_viewer.html region="0,1766,2632,1650" id="figure_64" canvas="279" height="75vh" %}

THE USE OF 16MM. FILM IN LIBRARY WORK

In the past year, considerable progress has been made in equipment and 
technique for copying various records on film. The technique of micro-copying, 
combined with the use of WPA labor, opens a new field for achievement of large-scale objectives, hitherto abandoned as too expensive for the average institution. 

The Recordak Corporation, of 350 Madison Avenue, New York City, 
using regular commercial equipment and specially developed equipment has done 
considerable work along this line. Sometime ago, Recordak equipment was used 
to photograph the NRA and AAA hearings in Washington on 16mm. film. Positive copies of this film record were sold to libraries throughout the country. 

Recently, Dr. T. R. Schellenberg and others, with the cooperation of the 
Recordak Corporation, worked out a plan for the photographing of library cards. 
The general procedure as planned involves the filming of the catalogues of all the 
libraries in a region, and the typing of library cards from the film copies to make a 
master catalogue. For the reading of the film, the typists use Recordak projectors, 
which enlarge the film copies to original size. 

For $5.50 worth of film (200 feet), including developing, 10,000 library 
catalogue cards can be copied. The plan is ideal, as cards can be photographed at 
a high rate of speed with absolute accuracy, minimum disturbance of library 
routine, simplicity of operation, and at a lower cost than could possibly be 
attained with any other method. Two large centers, Cleveland and Philadelphia, 
are pioneering in this field by making union catalogues of their library holdings. 

The attached film contains pictures of a number of standard library cards. 
