{% include osd_iiif_image_viewer.html region="0,1766,2632,1650" id="figure_65" canvas="281" height="75vh" %}

PRESERVATION OF NEWSPAPERS 
BY PHOTOGRAPHY 

(Reprinted, by permission, from 
Bulletin of American Newspaper 
Publishers Association)

By W. E. WINES,

Manager Mechanical Department 

A photographic method and apparatus for reproducing newspaper pages 
in reduced size, so that newspaper files may consist of small reels of negative film 
instead of bulky bound volumes, has been announced by Eastman Kodak Company 
and was exhibited in New York by Charles Z. Case. This is a development of the 
Recordak system which has been in use for eight years by banks and mercantile 
companies for making photographic records of checks and bills. The process 
consists of two steps or stages. The pages of any issue are first photographed consecutively on a sensitized film 1⅜ inches wide, by means of a special camera which 
photographs the pages with great rapidity---approximately 30 pages a minute. For 
viewing the film, a special projector or viewing apparatus has been devised which 
produces an image the linear dimensions of which are 1½ times those of the 
original printed page. A column 2 inches wide is enlarged by the projector to 
3 inches and the height of the letters is magnified in the same ratio. 

THE FILM. 

The film used is similar to the standard 35-mm. film used in professional 
moving picture cameras but differs in two important particulars. The first is 
that the base which carries the sensitive emulsion is the non-inflammable cellulose 
acetate, used in amateur movie cameras, instead of the highly combustible cellulose 
nitrate, commonly used for professional moving picture work. Mr. Case says that 
the National Board of Fire Underwriters rates this "safety" film as offering no 
more fire hazard than the same quantity and form of newsprint. The second
