{% include pagebreak.html canvas=33 %}

{% include pagebreak.html canvas=34 %}

## FIGURE I 

This figure, showing a page of 10—point Century and a page of 10-point Granjon, 
both leaded two points, gives a comparison of the varying word content made possible by the use of different type faces of the same point size. These pages 
were reproduced from the Wolff Type Book with the kind permission of the Wolff 
Book Manufacturing Company. 

10 POINT CENTURY 

THE "RED DEATH" had long devastated the country. 
No pestilence had ever been so fatal, or so hideous. 
Blood was it Avatar and its seal---the redness and 
the horror of blood. There were sharp pains, and sudden dizziness, and then profuse bleeding at the pores, 
with dissolution. The scarlet stains upon the body 
and especially upon the face of the victim, were the 
pest ban which shut him out from the aid and from 
the sympathy of his fellow-men. And the whole seizure, progress and termination of the disease, were 
the incidents of half an hour. But the Prince Prospero was happy and dauntless and sagacious. When 
his dominions were half depopulated, he summoned 
to his presence a thousand hale and light-hearted 
friends from among the knights and dames of his 
court, and with these retired to the deep seclusion of 
one of his castellated abbeys. *This was an extensive 
and magnificent structure,* the creation of the 
prince's own eccentric yet august taste. A strong and 
lofty wall girdled it in. This wall had gates of iron. 
The courtiers, having entered, brought furnaces and 
massy hammers and welded the bolts. They resolved 
to leave means neither of ingress nor egress to the 
sudden impulses of despair or of frenzy from within. 
The abbey was amply provisioned. With such precautions the courtiers might bid defiance to contagion. The external world could take care of itself. In 
the mean time it was folly to grieve, or to think. The 
prince had provided all the appliances of pleasure. 
There were buffoons, there were improvisatori, there 
were ballet-dancers, there were musicians, there was 
Beauty, there was wine. All these and security were 
within. Without was the "Red Death." It was toward 

291 WORDS 33 LINES 2 POINT LEAD 

{% include columnbreak.html canvas=34 col=2 %}

10 POINT GRANJON 

THE "Red Death" had long devastated the country. No pestilence had ever been so fatal, or so hideous. Blood was its Avatar and its seal---the redness and the horror of blood. There 
were sharp pains, and sudden dizziness, and then profuse 
bleeding at the pores, with dissolution. The scarlet stains upon 
the body and especially upon the face of the victim, were the 
pest ban which shut him out from the aid and from the sympathy of his fellow-men. And the whole seizure, progress and 
termination of the disease, were the incidents of half an hour. 
But the Prince Prospero was happy and dauntless and sagacious. When his dominions were half depopulated, he summoned to his presence a thousand hale and light-hearted friends 
from among the knights and dames of his court, and with 
these retired to the deep seclusion of one of his castellated 
abbeys. *This was an extensive and magnificent structure,* the 
creation of the prince's own eccentric yet august taste. A strong 
and lofty wall girdled it in. This wall had gates of iron. The 
courtiers, having entered, brought furnaces and massy hammers and welded the bolts. They resolved to leave means 
neither of ingress nor egress to the sudden impulses of despair 
or of frenzy from within. The abbey was amply provisioned. 
With such precautions the courtiers might bid defiance to contagion. The external world could take care of itself. In the 
mean time it was folly to grieve, or to think. The prince had 
provided all the appliances of pleasure. There were buffoons, 
there were improvisatori, there were ballet-dancers, there were 
musicians, there was Beauty, there was wine. All these and 
security were within. Without was the "Red Death." It was 
toward the close of the fifth or sixth month of his seclusion, 
and while the pestilence raged most furiously abroad, that 
the Prince Prospero entertained his thousand friends at a 
masked ball of the most unusual magnificence. It was a voluptuous scene, that masquerade. But first let me tell of the rooms 

342 WORDS 33 LINES 2 POINT LEAD 

{% include pagebreak.html canvas=35 %}
{% include pagebreak.html canvas=36 %}

Sample Page to Illustrate Letterpress Format on 6¾"x9¼" Page 

AN ECONOMICAL PRINT-FACE FORMAT 

In order to secure an economical print-face format, various factors must be 
taken into consideration. Among these are the compactness and size of the 
type-face, the amount of leading, and the width of the margins. 

In discussing type-sizes and type-faces, it may be well to know of the graduated or uniform scale for measuring type which is now used by American 
type-founders. This scale is known as the point system. The unit of the system is a division of space called a point, which is .013837 or 1/72 of an inch. 
All type sizes are multiples of this unit of measurement. The smallest type 
generally used is 5-point or Pearl. 6-point or Nonpareil and 8-point or Brevier are frequently used for footnotes in monographic work. 7-point or 
Minion is commonly used for newsprint. 10-point or Long Primer is best 
suited for regular book composition. Examples of these type-sizes can conveniently be found by looking under "type" in Webster's International Dictionary of the English Language. The use of a type-size smaller than 10-point 
effects an economy in make-up and make-ready but not in composition, for 
a given manuscript will require approximately the same number of "ems" 
in various sizes of type. 

As a given font of type has an exact point-size in its depth, so the individual 
characters of that font have a definite width of "set." The average width of 
the character "m" in a type-face is as great as its depth; in a word, the letter 
"m" is exactly square. This is the case in commonly used type-faces like Caslon Old Style, Scotch Roman and Modern, where in 10-point the set size of 
the letter "m" is also 10 points. In a compact type-face, like the one used for 
this composition, the set size of the letter "m" is only 94 points, with all other 
characters having a corresponding compactness. By the use of this type-face, 
known as Granjon, a considerable saving can be effected in composition costs 
if these are reckoned up by multiplying the width by che length of the line. 
If composition costs are determined by the number of key-strokes instead of 
the amount of type matter, this type-face would effect a saving not in composition costs, but in area costs only. 

Excessive leading is not compatible with good value in book-making, and 
should be prevented, if possible, by instructions by the publisher to the printer. 
The type of this page is leaded one point; in a word, 11-point type is cast 
on a 12-point body. 

Much space is often wasted in margins. The formula for margins given by 
Gress<sup>1</sup> calls for top and back margin to be equal; the outside to be equal 
to the top plus one-third of the back margin; and the bottom to be equal to 
the outside margin plus two picas (or about one-fourth inch). This formula 
is followed in the format here illustrated. 

This page format has been designed by the R. R. Donnelley & Sons Company of Chicago as one taking account of the economies possible in page 

1. W. B. Gress, *Advanced Typography* (Washington, 1931), p. 125. 

FIGURE II 

{% include pagebreak.html canvas=37 %}

{% include pagebreak.html canvas=38 %}

Sample Page to Illustrate Letterpress Format on 6¾"x9¼"
Page 

AN ECONOMICAL PRINT-FACE FORMAT 

A two-column page is economical because 
it permits a fuller utilization of the page size. 
The width of the margins can be decreased 
without loss of proportion, while the size of 
type can be reduced without serious loss of 
legibility. Thus the word content of a page 
can be very materially increased. 

In constructing a two-column page format, 
the relationship between the line length and 
the type-size as a factor affecting legibility is 
an important consideration. The most significant work in establishing this relationship 
has been done by M. A. Tinker and D. G. 
Paterson at the University of Minnesota. In a 
series of articles in the *Journal of Applied Psychology* their experimental investigations are 
described. In the April 1929 issue on pages 
120-130 is found a report in regard to the 
"Size of Type." After experimenting with 
6, 8, 10, 12, and 14 points of type, Paterson 
and Tinker concluded that "10 point type 
yields the fastest reading and is thus the optimum size of type for efficient reading." They 
also pointed out, in the course of their discussion, that "one is seldom justified in reducing 
printing space to such a degree that speed of 
reading is markedly decreased." In the June 
1929 issue on pages 205-19 Paterson and 
Tinker report on the "Length of Line." 
After investigating texts in 10-point type in 
59, 80, 97, 114, 136, 152, 168, and 186 mm. 
line lengths, they believe the conclusion is 
justified that "for 10 point type, an 80 mm. 
(or 19 pica) line yields the fastest reading 
and is therefore the optimum length of line 
for efficient reading." In the February 1931 
issue on pages 72-78, Tinker and Paterson 
report on the "Simultaneous Variation of 
Type and Line Length." They investigated 
the legibility of 6, 8, 10, 12, and 14 point 
types set in line lengths, proportionally increased or decreased from 10-point on 19 
picas. Thus 6-point was set in a 16 pica, 8-point in a 17 pica, 10-point in a 19 pica, 12-point in a 23 pica, and 14-point in a 27 pica 
line. Their conclusions are the following: 

> The results obtained in this experiment seem to 
  justify the conclusion that line for line arrangements 
  varying from a standard text printed in 10 point with {% include columnbreak.html canvas=38 col=2 %} an optimal line length of 19 picas yield equally efficient reading performance for 8 and 10 point type, 
  and possibly for larger sizes. The evidence shows that 
  6 point type with line length reduced as stated is 
  read at a significantly slower rate. 

> The experiment yields evidence that, within certain limits, neither size of type nor line length as 
  single variables can be relied upon in determining 
  optimal typographical arrangements. Both factors 
  (and perhaps others as well) work hand in hand 
  and must be properly balanced to produce a printed 
  page which will promote the maximum reading rate. 

The typescript pages of this book are arranged in a two-column format with a line 
length approximating the optimal line length 
for 10-point type. Since it is difficult to find 
the typescript equivalent of 10-point type, it 
is not possible to determine whether the typescript size used in this book will yield the 
tastest reading, but it is likely that it approaches the optimum size of type for efficient reading. 

This double-column format in print-face 
has a printing surface of 5¼ x 7¼ inches, 
with line lengths of 15 picas. The type-size 
used is 10-point for the regular composition 
and 8-point for the two paragraphs of quotation. The type-face is Granjon. It has been 
possible to prepare this page through the 
courtesy of the R. R. Donnelley & Sons Company of Chicago. 

A two-coluinn page is economical because 
it permits a fuller utilization of the page size. 
The width of the margins can be decreased 
without loss of proportion, while the size of 
type can be reduced without serious loss of 
legibility. Thus the word content of a page 
can be very materially increased. 

In constructing a two-column page format, 
the relationship between the line length and 
the type-size as a factor affecting legibility 
is an important consideration. The most sig- 
nificant work in establishing this relationship 
has been done by M. A. Tinker and D. G. 
Paterson at the University. of Minnesota. In 
a series of articles in the *Journal of Applied 
Psychology* their experimental investigations 
are described. In the April 1929 issue on 
pages 120--130 is found a report in regard to 
the "Size of Type." After experimenting with 
6, 8, 10, 12, and 14 points of type, Paterson 


FIGURE III 

