{%- include pagebreak.html canvas=69 -%}&nbsp; 

&nbsp;{%- include pagebreak.html canvas=70 -%}&nbsp; 

LIB. IL. The Pyrartides. 

to have done us a mifchief; and guarded the mouth whilft we entred, for fearof the 
wild Arabs. To take the better footing, we put off our hoes, and moft of our ap- 
parcels fore-toldof the heat within not inferiour toa Stove. Our guide (a Moor :) 
went foremoft: every one of us with our lights in our hands. A moft dreadful pat- 
fage, andnolefs cumberfom; not above a yard in breadth, and four feet in height, 
each ftone containing that meafure. So that always ftooping, and fometimes creep- 
ing, by reafon of the rubbidge, we defcended (not by ftairs, but as down the fteep 
of ahill) a hundred feet, where the place for a little circuit enlarged, and the 
fearful defcend continued, which they fay none ever durft attempt any farther, fave 
that a Baffz of Cairo, curious to {earch into the fecrets thereof, caufed divers condem- 
ned perfons to undertake the performance, well ftozed with lights, and other provi- 
fion; and that fome of them afcended again well-nigh chisty miles off in the Defarts. 
A Fable deviled only to beget wonder. But others have written, that at the bottom 
there isa fpaciousPit, eighty anc fix Cubits deep, filied at th: over-flow by conceal- 
ed Conduits: inthe midita little Ifland, and on that 2 fomb containing the body of 
Cheops, a King of Egypt, and the builder of this ?yramis: which with the truth 
hath a greater affinity. For fince Ihave been told »y one out of his own experience, 
that in the uppermoft depth there is a large {quare ploce, (though without water} 
into which he was led by another entry openiny to the South, known but unto 
few (that now open, being thut by fome order) and entred at this place where we 
feared to defcend. A turning on the right hand jeadeth into a little room: which 
by reafon of the noyfom favour and unezfie pailage, we refufed to enter. 
Clambering over the mouth of the aforefaid dungeon, we @fcended as upon the bow 
of anarch, the way no larger than the former, about an hundred and twenty feet. 

